Know that you understand how a hash table works it's time for us to learn about Hasek.
But before doing that.
Let's briefly look at the set interface that has set implements.
We know the tech interface extends the collection interface and it models a mathematical set which means
up unlike a list a set can not how duplicate is due to this.
It is useful when uniqueness matters are also fast lookups matter.
We only discussed about how a hash table helps that Fosler cups on Hassid is based on Hostin as it internally
uses hash map he called up the list interface element position wasn't was the idea that is insertion
order is important but with set insertion order does not matter.
But what matters is fast lookups and uniqueness sockets it is a subway interface offset and it can additionally
be useful for sorting the elements.
So in addition to uniqueness on fossil lookups sort set will also help with sorting the elements unlike
list set interface does not add any new methods on top of what it inherits from the collection interface
.
However due to the fact that it does not allow duplicate it just places additional requirements on some
of the inherited methods and also the constructors for example for the I don't admit that it explicitly
states that duplicates are not allowed.
Now let's look at Hasek as the name implies it is a hash table based implementation of a second duffus
an alley.
It uses a hash map which stores key value based hash map will be discussed later.
But since Hachette starts on the individual objects those objects will be stored Eskies while an empty
object will be stored as a value not an empty object.
It is actually an instance of the object class.
If you're interested you can decode the source code of the augmented in-house set.
It also allows one non-value on here or its typical use cases.
It is useful when the need is rapid lookup rapid insertion and rapid deletion.
And we already know this from our discussion on hash table incisional that should not matter too.
If we want to use Hachigian finally does better than our IList If remove all or retain all operations
are to be used frequently.
If you recall our discussion from idlest Lawson they said that agreement on what it did it through each
element of the collection would remove those elements that are present in the input collection an index
of idlest each the more operation has a linear time complexity Gudu element.
Yes but with Hasek each animal would be constant.
So it is better than idlest not to look at a demo or has set OK for this demo.
I have created this new class called us said demo and it is added to the collections package.
And this class has this method called us Hassidim.
So we are going to defend this method and this particular Demel on some code has already been created
here.
So we will also extend that so fast let's create a set of strings so it will be set of string.
So let's also import a set on how Shekh let's just do can go shuffle.
So always remember to program to an interface.
Ok we already discussed that.
And one of the effective delite terms also to come unstuck.
OK.
So that way if you program to an interface you can always change the implementation.
Now let's go ahead and add a couple of strings to this
.
So it's going to be a B.
And let's also add another string quite a non that's run this.
So we're simply spending the set one and it is only printing A and B.
So the second is not getting at it because it's a duplicate.
And we know that Hassid does not allow duplicate.
So that's why it has set of strings non It's creator has set off this custom plus called book.
OK so book is defined at the bottom here and it has three feet slightly altered on either on that are
also getters and setters for that.
And there is also a constructor which will take the same fuse as the input parameter.
And here in this class we are creating two instances of the book and we are passing the same arguments
for the for the book name for the author and also the ear.
It is basically the year publication.
So we have two books here and we are creating this new Haslet instance and we're adding the books to
this.
And we're simply printing it.
So if Iran does so here it is.
But this is not readable because it is printing the object references so.
I'd like to string method here in the book.
It's going to source said Jondrette to string on let's use all of the fields here.
So here if you go down.
So here had a two string mattered.
Now let me run it now as you can see it has printing both the books and the corresponding three rallies
.
But here we have a duplicate here.
So here.
But the objects are logically equal.
OK.
So has said Normally we use it only for only if we want uniqueness.
So if we want if we do not want the second element to be added because it is a duplicate because it
is logically equal then in that case we need to do more.
So right now we know that has set is based on hash map and don't only uses map on hash map and then
it is based on hash hash table and promote hash table discussion we know that it uses the hash code
it uses it has a hash function on the hash function uses the hash code mattered in order to in order
to hash into the hash table right.
In order to find the correct bucket number.
Now in this case if the second element is a duplicate then it needs to have the same hash quarter as
a hostile limit.
But in this case both of these objects then have different hash scorched because the hash code method
is defined in the Object class so when Hatchard invokes the hash code method on Book 1 and Book to both
of them will be different because the hash code motard typically the way it is implemented is it and
some memory address or off the corresponding object after converting it into an int representation.
OK so both of them are actually two different objects.
So both of them have two different memory addresses and because of that.
So we get different values but it is written by the hash called method and that has matter is in the
Object class.
So what we need to do is we need to override it so that hardboard these instances we get the same value
same value is written so that we should really not add the second second block.
So let's do that.
Let's go ahead and override the hash code matter.
So here is the public record and so on.
And it's a hash.
Or let's say that I do the same.
Very tender.
I mean let's let's just use data to identify the duplicate.
So in this case a hash could really use that title will invoke the Hoshko matter on Titan.
So far since but since the titles of the books or seen this this particular statement in rockish and
rendered on the same hash good for both the invocations.
OK so now we're on it.
But then the second book is still getting entered.
The reason for that is because we have all read under the hash code mattered.
So both of them have the same hash cord and they get to the same bucket.
But what happens is this particular book the book one has been added to the linked list in the linked
list.
Now the second book also get has to the same bucket then but hash table will try to check if this is
actually equal to that and for that equals method is used.
We have the equal muttered in the Object class.
It is defined there.
So that needs to be overridden also.
So if it is not overridden so has table will actually be using the equals method from the Object class
on Dodik was murdered by the by default.
Well Paul Hoffman equality operation.
So when we when it does an equality operation it compares the object references.
OK.
An object offenses are obviously different because they're both are two different objects.
So we need to also override the equals matter and that is already done here.
So let me just uncommon this but the equals method for the Hoshko we are using title for the equals
just for this example we can use either an author.
So let me run it now.
Now you can see that the second book is not it.
OK.
So what needs to do what needs to be done is the hash code matter needs to be overridden and also the
equals method has to be overridden.
Because a hash board they get mapped to the same hash but the second object will also be mapped at the
same bucket when Hastert performs the equals operation.
It compares it with the book one and both of them have the same ear and the same author.
So it would read on a true and because of got it it's not going to read the second book.
Now even in the first example here when we were using strings so the string also here string is also
an object but string also has you know if you look at the source code you will see that it has already
been bought hash called method as well as the second method which is the equals method.
So because of that it did not add the second the second the duplicate.
So this is what we have.
And that's actually common this odd bit of this because they can be auto generated.
So if you're going to source here and here it is generated hash code unequals and it is asking if you
need to use all entry fees or.
But all three fees for both ultimate's.
So here you can see that this is the hash code metadata that has been auto generated and this is the
equals method.
So these are very different from what we have written earlier.
So the Hoshko method is using some some interior some int variables also.
So this is based on the best practice.
So what we need and what we know it was very very basic Hoshko method but this is like based on some
best practices.
So this is actually a research area itself.
HALPERT behind the hash.
Hash functions.
So so mathematicians on Twitter dical computer scientists work on that.
So this is how it is.
So eclipse is using the best practice.
In fact next we are going to briefly discuss an item from authoritative Java and it also discusses about
this exact same kind of formula and it is.
It is already implemented by eclipse so it is very important to use a good hash code matter.
And in the item that we are going to discuss it seems the String class used a bad hash code method prior
to Jalapa and because of that it gave lot of issues.
When lot of strings were added to hash tables.
Ok so it is very important to use a good hash function and this is a good hash function which is Auto
generator.
The target is now let's head back to the slide and let's just look at the item there.
And here is Item 9 from Effective Java which is all this.
All right Hoshko matter.
When you override equals and this happens to be a common in w question.
So if you want to treat two different objects as logically equal you must go right but equals on Hoshko
methods.
This or that or writing only Haskell method was not helpful in preventing that duplicate from getting
added.
Similarly if only equals was overridden but not caused matter.
Then it is very likely that the duplicate object will be stored in a completely different bucket.
In fact the contract of Hoshko method explicitly states that if two objects are equal according to their
equal Medek then calling the corresponding hash code methods must also produce the same injuries.
Let's actually review this in the Hoshko that's contract.
OK here is a Hoshko method from the object class.
And here is what we discussed earlier.
You can also read it later.
It's as if two objects are equal.
According to the equals method.
Then calling the hash code method on each of the two objects must produce the same integer result.
OK so that's what the effective delite also says and it also says that if two objects are unequal according
to the equals method then the Hoshko method can still produce the same and degenerate business.
OK that's what this particular statement that Turquand says.
OK so if the objects are not equal then the houseboat can still produce the same integer reasons.
However this last statement recommends that for unequal objects it says it is better for the hash court
method to produce distinct integer results so that rate would improve the performance of hash tables
.
So that is what is recommended but there is no requirement that it has to be like that.
The hash quote motard candidate and the same value even for unequal objects.
So there is no requirement from the Java language specification.
It is dependent on the Java language implementation but typically they the hash code method uses the
memory address so the objects are equal.
Obviously it would read under different hash Goertz indistinct Oshkosh on that as how that is the good
way to implement but it is not required from the language of the specification.
So that's about it.
So we looked at Hasek and it is useful when uniqueness on Fosco cups matter but not in social order
.
Now if you want to insert objects of your own class and if you want to maintain uniqueness and logically
equal objects then make sure to override both hash code as well as Eclipse method.
Thank you